Notification policy (#94)
spacelift-io/user-documentation: docs/integrations/webhooks.md

# Webhooks

> Spacelift can be configured to send webhook notifications about various events to an HTTP endpoint of your choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spacelift can be configured to send webhook notifications for various events to an HTTP endpoint of your choice.
```

Webhooks can be set up by Spacelift administrators. They can be easily created or modified in the `Webhooks` section.

### Navigate to the webhooks section

![](<../assets/screenshots/named-hooks-nav.png>)

### Fill required fields

![](<../assets/screenshots/named-hooks1.png>)

!!! info
    The `Secret` parameter is optional and is used to validate the received payload.
    You can learn more about it in the [validating payload](webhooks.md#validating-payload) section.

### Reference webhooks in policy rules

Webhook messages are delivered using the [notification policy](../concepts/policy/notification-policy.md).
When defining rules, the policy expects you to reference the webhook by its `ID` which you
can copy from the webhook list view:

![](<../assets/screenshots/named-hooks2.png>)

### Exploring deliveries

Webhook deliveries and their reponse statuses are stored and can be explored by selecting a specific webhook
and viewing its details. You'll be presented with a list of deliveres, their status codes and when they happened.
You can also click on each delivery to view more details about it:

![](<../assets/screenshots/named-hooks3.png>)

## Default webhook payloads

> The following section documents the default webhook payloads sent for each event type. However if required, webhook payloads can be customized via a [notification policy](../concepts/policy/notification-policy.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following section documents the default webhook payloads sent for each event type. However, if required webhook payloads can be customized via a [notification policy](../concepts/policy/notification-policy.md).
```

## Setting up webhooks

> ### TO BE ADDED...

Reviewer 2: Can you to me a favour since you're in here and update the intro text to the following:

```
Spacelift can be configured to send webhook notifications about various events to an HTTP endpoint of your choice.
```

My thought process is:

- We can drop `optional` - we know it's optional because it's something you configure :smile: 
- I don't think we need to explain what webhooks are.
- We support more than just run state changes now.

> ## Interpreting webhook payload

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should rename this to "Default webhook payloads" given they're configurable now. And we could include something like this:

```
The following section documents the default webhook payloads sent for each event type. If required, webhook payloads can be customized via a [notification policy](add-link-to-payload-customization).
```
```

Reviewer 2: @tomasmik can you update the header from "Interpreting webhook payload" to "Default webhook payloads"?

- `run` contains information about the run, its associated commit and delta (if any);
- stack contains some basic information about the parent [Stack](../concepts/stack/README.md) of the `run`;

### Internal error events

```json
{
  "title": "Invalid Stack Slug Triggered",
  "body": "policy tried to trigger Stack 'this-is-not-a-stack' which either doesn't exist or this policy doesn't have access to",
  "error": "policy triggered for Stack that doesn't exist",
  "severity": "ERROR",
  "account": "spacelift-io"
}
```

Internal errors will always have the same fields set and some of them will be static for an event:

> - `title` is the title (summary) of the error that happened.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `title` is the title (summary) of the error that occurred.
```

Or maybe just simplify it to "is the title (summary) of the error".

> - `body` is the is the full explation of what went wrong.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `body` is the is the full explanation of what went wrong.
```

> - `error` is a static field for each error and should not change between errors of the same type.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I'd understand this as a user. Is it used to identify specific classes/types of error? If so we should probably say "for each error type...".

Just as an aside, it feels weird that something that sounds like an enum appears to be free text. :shrug:

- `severity` can be one of three different constants: `INFO`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`.
- `account` is the account for which the error happened.

## Validating payload

In order to validate the incoming payload, you will need to have the secret handy - the one you've generated yourself when creating or updating the webhook.

> Every webhook payload comes with two signature headers generated from the combination of the secret and payload. `X-Signature` header contains the SHA1 hash of the payload, while `X-Signature-256` contains the SHA256 hash. We're using the exact same mechanism as GitHub to generate signatures, please refer to [this article](https://medium.com/@vampiire/how-to-verify-the-authenticity-of-a-github-apps-webhook-payload-8d63ccc81a24){: rel="nofollow"} for details.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if we should update this to point at the actual GitHub docs rather than a medium post?

https://docs.github.com/en/developers/webhooks-and-events/webhooks/securing-your-webhooks#validating-payloads-from-github

Author: makes perfect sense to me

## Attaching webhooks to stacks

!!! warning

>     It's recomended to instead use the [notification policy](../concepts/policy/notification-policy.md) in order to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    We recommend that you use [notification policies](../concepts/policy/notification-policy.md) to
```

>     consumer webhook data received from Spacelift.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    route stack events to your webhooks. Stack webhook integrations are provided for backwards compatibility.
```

I used the word "route" because it's more about what gets sent where, rather than what happens when that data is received. I also added the part about backwards compatibility to give a reason for the recommendation (i.e. that we're replacing stack-level webhook integrations with notifications policy).

Internal errors will always have the same fields set and some of them will be static for an event:

- `title` is the title (summary) of the error.
- `body` is the is the full explanation of what went wrong.

> - `error` is description of the error that happened.

Reviewer 2: s/is description/is a description

- `run` contains information about the run, its associated commit and delta (if any);

> - stack contains some basic information about the parent [Stack](../concepts/stack/README.md) of the `run`;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `stack` contains some basic information about the parent [Stack](../concepts/stack/README.md) of the `run`;
```

### Internal error events

```json
{
  "title": "Invalid Stack Slug Triggered",
  "body": "policy tried to trigger Stack 'this-is-not-a-stack' which either doesn't exist or this policy doesn't have access to",
  "error": "policy triggered for Stack that doesn't exist",
  "severity": "ERROR",
  "account": "spacelift-io"
}
```

Internal errors will always have the same fields set and some of them will be static for an event:

- `title` is the title (summary) of the error.

> - `body` is the is the full explanation of what went wrong.

Reviewer 3: > is the is the

stutter
